Add conceptual docs for react-aria (#471)
adobe-private/react-spectrum-v3: packages/@react-aria/i18n/docs/internationalization.mdx

---
category: Concepts
---

# Internationalization

Adapting components to respect languages and cultures of users around the world is an important way to help make your
application accessible to the widest number of people. React Aria supports over 30 languages, including
right-to-left mirroring and interactions.

## Introduction

Internationalization is the process of structuring your code and user interface to support localization. React Aria supports
many aspects of localization for many components out of the box, including translations for builtin strings, localized 
date and number formatting, right-to-left interactions, and more. By using React Aria for your design system,
these aspects of internationalization are handled for you. You can also use our hooks in your own custom components.

## Localization

Localization is the process of adapting an application for a particular language or region. It includes translating text content,
as well as adapting date formatting, number formatting, collation and sorting, text search, and more.

React Aria includes translations for all builtin strings in over 30 locales. However, because React Aria provides no rendering,

> most of the builtin strings are for non-visible things like accessibility labels. All application provided content must be localized

Reviewer: not sure element is correct here either... 
```suggestion
most of the builtin strings are used for non-visible content to provide accessible labels. All application provided content must be localized
```

> and passed in to components. This can be done libraries such as [react-intl](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and passed in to components. This can be done with libraries such as [react-intl](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl).
```

The root most element of your application should define the [lang](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/lang)
and [dir](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/dir) attributes so that the browser knows which language
and direction the user interface should be rendered in. This can be done with the [useLocale](useLocale.html) hook from `@react-aria/i18n`.

```tsx
import {useLocale} from '@react-aria/i18n';

function YourApp() {
  let {locale, direction} = useLocale();

  return (
    <div lang={locale} dir={direction}>
      {/* your app here */}
    </div>
  );
}
```

React Aria automatically detects the user's current language by default, and even updates this if the browser or system language changes.
However, if you would like to override this with an application specific setting, you can do so using the [I18nProvider](I18nProvider.html)
exposed by `@react-aria/i18n`.

```tsx
import {I18nProvider} from '@react-aria/i18n';

<I18nProvider locale="fr-FR">
  <YourApp />
</I18nProvider>
```

## Supported locales

React Aria currently supports over 30 locales. They are listed below.

<div style={{columnWidth: 200}}>

> * Arabic (United Arab Emirates)

Reviewer 3: should we include the formatted name? `en-US` etc

Author: hmm, I don't think we need it? We already cover both the language and region here, so the same info is already here.
